# Young Mathematicians Conference (YMC)

Hosted at The Ohio State University, August 15th - 17th.

## Day 0: August 14th

### Logistics

I left for the airport at 6:30 AM. Since my girlfriend Sherry also had a work trip starting today (with a 8:15 flight time), I wanted to make sure I could leave with her and see that she would arrive safely -- thus, the early wake up and travel time. After seeing Sherry go through the security checkpoint (for Southwest) relatively smoothly, I went over to concourse D to check into my flight, before then going through security as well (TSA Precheck made this process very easy). I had about three, four hours to kill, and I mainly texted friends, grabbed breakfast and later lunch from McDonalds, and listened to music. I took my first flight from BWI to DTW (Detroit), where I had another hour layover. This time, the flight from Detroit to Columbus, Ohio was overbooked, and so Delta ended up having to offer $1000 in gift cards to 7 passengers in exchange for them flying out on a later flight (my flight back from NCUR was similarly overbooked and a similar offer for $800 was made -- I think if I had been returning home rather than arriving at the conference, I would have taken this deal, especially since the flight from DTW to CMH is only an hour long). Soon enough, though, I was on the plane to Columbus and I arrived at around 5. 

After grabbing my luggage from baggage claim, I ordered an Uber to the Blackwell Hotel, a super nice 4 star hotel that the conference is providing for us. I unpacked a few things, charged my devices, and sent a message on the Discord to ask if anyone wanted to grab dinner. I also prepped my presentation some more, even going through a rough practice run with a friend from my UMD REU. Luckily, I got one taker and so I officially met my first conference participant (YJ, though I did meet someone else in the elevator) and we went to dinner at Diaspora, a Korean-Japanese fusion restaurant. 

After dinner, I walked back to the hotel (YJ went off to the math building), where I made some calls to parents and friends before relaxing for the night. The OSU campus is quite nice -- the hotel is also right next to a bunch of sports facilities including the football stadium -- so it should be fun to be both a conference attendee and an explorer in the next few days.

## Day 1: August 15th

In the morning, I woke up at 8 AM and chilled in bed until 9. After getting ready for the day and practicing a bit more on my presentation, I went to the hotel lobby to meet JLD, one of my high school friends who is also attending YMC (as a second-time participant -- he came last year) for brunch. We ended up going to a nice brunch diner spot called Hangover Easy, where I got an Omelette and a Milkshake. It was great to catch up with him and to hear about his crazy travels/run schedule this summer (he got off the redeye, napped for two hours, then went for 6 miles at 7:00 pace before meeting me for brunch).

After brunch, we walked over to the Math Building to first check in and then went up to the seventh floor to hang out with the other conference participants (this is where I will need to look up people's last names -- though everyone has a name tag, people usually introduce themselves with their first names and so that's all I really remember). JLD ran into a few of his friends from Williams (he goes there and also did the SMALL REU there last summer) and went to talk with them, so I walked around the room and tried to meet other people. I first talked to CN, who participated in the Michigan Math REU, before briefly meeting CY and WZ, who participated in SUAMI. After making it back to my original table, I met a big Williams contingent, including both Williams students and SMALL participants (Williams/SMALL: FN, SC, KS, SD; also ZM from Swarthmore and a few others including CK and RT) and we chatted a bit until we had a big introductory announcement essentially welcoming us to the Conference and reminding us to fill out reimbursement details (I need to do that soon). We then socialized a bit more before heading down to Scott Hall to attend the first few student lectures.

I attended the following (I took some notes and will try to LaTeX them up after the conference):
- (1:45 - 2:05 PM): *The Failed Zero Forcing Number of a Graph*
- (2:15 - 2:35 PM): *Properties of Families of Graphs with Forbidden Induced Subgraphs*
- (2:45 - 3:05 PM): *Random Discrete Decomposition and Benford's Law*

[Mini Break for Snacks (M&M Cookies, yum!) and Coffee, which tasted terrible but was much needed]

- (3:45 - 4:05 PM): *Exploring the Berezin Range of Operators on Subspaces of the Hardy Space*
- (4:15 - 4:45 PM): *The VC Dimension of the Heisenberg Group*

At 5:00, we had our first plenary lecture on *The Collatz Conjecture over the Gaussian Integers* by Professor Alejandra Alvarado (Eastern Illinois University). After that, we all went back to the Math Tower to enjoy some Mediterranean Catering for dinner and socialized a bit more with the other participants. At this point, my social battery as well as the others seemed to be dissipating. I met a few other participants throughout the day and here (JN, LOB, JJ, and JL -- the latter two of which know Philip, one of my research partners from the Circle Packings presentation I'm presenting here, from various places, which was insane... I guess it really is a small world out there). Afterwards, I went back to the hotel with JN, CY, and TC, where I practiced my presentation some more and decompressed for the day. It was definitely a hectic day today -- more presentations tomorrow and hopefully more free time (I really want to explore the campus, including the football stadium and the beautiful surrounding area).

## Day 2: August 16th

The organizers mentioned yesterday that conference breakfast would be provided for at 8:30 AM at the Math Tower. Since I'm not really a breakfast person, and though I did end up waking up around 8, I took a bit longer than normal to get ready, and left the hotel at 9. In the lobby, I ran into AZ and JN, and we walked over to the Math Tower to find that all the breakfast pastries were gone (they brought it in 30 minutes prior, so it's really just our fault). I grabbed two cups of orange juice and chatted with JLD and a few others before walking to the second plenary lecture in the EA building.

The plenary talk today was *Practical Applications of Complex Analysis* by Professor Loredana Lanzani of Syracuse University and University of Bologna. I really enjoyed the plenary lecture. As the title suggests, the talk mainly highlighted the power of conformal maps in cultural/historical contexts (such as in airplane wing design, art like the Droste effect, as well as quasi-conformal mappings and their use in morphometric analysis). The talk reminded me of the Swarthmore IMC (Interactive Math Colloquium) I hosted where Professor Janet Talvacchia talked about the history of Geometry and Spaces and related concepts -- and I very much enjoyed it.

After the plenary lectures, we went down to Scott Hall to watch the student lectures. Today, a lot of my friends from school (like ZM, who I know from Swarthmore and JLD, who I know from high school) and the conference were presenting, but unfortunately there were a lot of time conflicts between presentations. I attended the following presentations (and offered to take pictures for most of the presenters as well)

 - (11 - 11:20): *A Structure Theorem on Doubling Measures for Arbitrary Bases* (ZM's talk)
 - (11:30 - 11:50): *Binomial Sets Under Z-Linear Forms*

 We had a brief poster session, where we heard two posters from conference attendees (one of the presenters JJ also knows my friend Philip, my research collaborator from Swarthmore who could not be at YMC, from their REU -- it's cool how connected everyone is), before getting the provided catering lunch. It turns out that there was a different conference going on at the other side of the hall, with their own provided catering lunch from QDoba... the food smelled so good and I ended up attempting to grab some food with JLD, to no avail. We unfortunately had to wait longer to grab our conference's food, which was okay, as well as the YMC t-shirts for this year. 

 Since I finished my food pretty quickly and there was an extra hour to spare before the next round of student presentations, I decided to walk around and explore campus. I first hit the nearest Starbucks to get some coffee before heading over to the Student Union to grab a picture with Brutus the Buckeye. I then walked back to the Math Tower/Scott Hall to hear the next round of talks:

 - (1:45 - 2:05 PM): Generalizations of the Erdos--Ginzburg--Ziv theorem via topology (JLD's talk)
 - (2:15 - 2:35 PM): On the Size and Complexity of Scrambles (a SMALL REU talk by KS and SD, two friends I met from the conference)
 - (2:45 - 3:05 PM): Finite Rank Sequences Over Arbitrary Finite Alphabets

 At this point, I was feeling quite tired so I went to the Math Lounge to decompress before the next event, a grad school panel where a few professors answered grad school and application questions. Steven Miller, the SMALL REU head, was also a part of the panel and he had some great news -- he would be providing everyone with pizza for dinner. I was happy at first about this but also a bit sad since I wanted to explore Columbus and the dinner spots with a few other conference participants... after dinner, I played a game of chess with CP before deciding to return to the hotel and throw around a frisbee with KS, CP, and later TO and CY. At around 6:30, I returned back to the hotel to decompress, practice and finalize my presentation a few times, and called my parents and friends to close out the night.

 It's crazy how fast this conference has gone -- tomorrow is presentation day for me but also the last official day of the conference (I'm flying out of Columbus at 5). I wish we had more time here to explore but my main priority tomorrow will be to close out the conference experience strong with a solid presentation.

 ## Day 3: August 17th

 Last day of the conference today! I woke up to my alarm at around 7:30 today -- my (optimistic) plan that I made last night was to wake up early, grab some breakfast from Panera Bread, and then head back to the hotel to shower, practice my presentation, pack my bags, and check out of the hotel. After waking up kind of tired, though, these plans changed immediately. I decided to not rush anything and skip breakfast to pack, shower, and practice my presentation again. One of my research partners Philip (who is currently in Budapest) sent me some suggestions for the presentation (I sent him a recorded video of a practice runthrough and he gave me feedback on that), and so I tried to incorporate his feedback in my morning practice talk. After doing my run through, I finished up my suitcase packing, tidied up the hotel room, and went down to the lobby to check out for the day. Despite having already checked out, the hotel let me I was able to store my suitcase there to pick up after the conference, which was quite convenient. 

 After checking out, I went over to the Math Tower to grab a small breakfast (a cup of OJ and a M&M Cookie in this instance) to calm down my presentation nerves. As a large conference group, we then went over to the EA building to listen to our final plenary lecture of the conference, *Topology meets Physics: Scissors Congruences and TQFTs* by Professor Carmen Rovi of Loyola University. The talk itself was quite good -- I followed for most of the first half before getting a bit more lost (and tired/nervous for my own presentation) at the cut-and-paste-operations and TQFT part. I especially enjoyed the scissor congruence animations she had -- I thought they showcased the concept quite well. The end of the presentation could not have been more timely -- right around 10:30, the fire alarms started going off since OSU was doing tests on their alarm system. As a conference group, we went outside to snap a few group conference photos (most of us were wearing the YMC 2023 shirts for the occasion). I grabbed a few other photos with a smaller group of students who all know Philip before heading inside to the Scott Hall to prep for my presentation. 
 
 Since my presentation was at 11, I scouted out the area nearly 20 minutes before, only to find that none of the classrooms had anyone in them. With around 10 minutes until presentation time, I got a bit more nervous, since there still seemed to not be anyone around. Luckily, the moderator for my session showed up shortly afterwards, and with some help, I was able to get connected to the big computer and get my presentation up on the projector. At this point, the nerves started to settle in. Quite a few people trickled in with a few minutes to go, and I was mainly waiting anxiously, doing my signature nervous cough, and chugging water. I soon got introduced as the first presentation speaker, gave my presentation relatively smoothly, and answered a few questions -- it was a solid presentation experience (any pictures taken are courtesy of ZM and JLD). The presentations I went to today included:
 
  - (11 - 11:20 AM): *Circle Packings from Tilings of the Plane* (my own)!
   > The presentation itself went pretty well. I'd say I fibbed/stumbled a bit for only a few small parts, but that's always kind of to be expected due to nerves, even though I've done a lot of practice on this talk. I got a number of solid questions at the end as well, including quite a few "nice job!" and "nice presentation!" comments from the other participants, which is always nice to have. In terms of the content itself, a lot of people were happy about the presentation visuals and were curious as to how we drew them (Tikz for most of them -- the circles are mostly handcoded -- with the exception of the final few slides which were done with a Python program). Overall, I was quite happy with how the presentation went and was proud of how I did!

  - (11:30 - 11:50 AM): *Dehn Invariant Zero Tetrahedra*
   > This talk was related to the Scissors Congruence talk we had earlier for the plenary lecture which was cool to see!

  - (12 - 12:20 PM): *Distance Graph Embedding Problems over Finite Fields*

After this final round of talks, we all went over to one of the presentation rooms for the YMC's closing remarks. We got a brief speech about why OSU and some of the benefits of the Math Grad program there (as well as a few goodies including pins, pens, and stickers) before the organizers of YMC thanked us and everyone involved for the conference experience. Since people were rushing to catch their flights (JLD already left to the airport -- he actually scootered the 8 miles there), this farewell message was short. We all gathered outside once again, and I got a quick picture with KS before he left with some of the other SMALL participants. ZM, JC, JL, and I decided to head somewhere for lunch to conclude the experience, and we were later joined by YJ and AS along the way. We ended up going to a nice little cafe, had a nice chat (at some point YJ and JC had to leave, but we were later joined by JJ and a few other friends), and grabbed some pictures before I decided that I had to head back to make my flight. After walking back to the hotel, grabbing my suitcase, calling an Uber to the airport, that was effectively the end of my conference experience!

In general, I'm really glad I got the chance to participate in YMC this year and grateful that I was accepted. I would have enjoyed more time to explore the campus (I really wanted to but did not get to go to the Ohio Football Stadium) and meet more people, but the program was packed with activities and events already. It was great to meet everyone and I can't wait for the next conference I get to go to!

